Hello, I'm Shreya Jain,
an engineer from the Create ML team.
Today,
we're going to explore enhancements
in the Object Detection template and
leverage them to create better models.
If you're not already familiar
with object detection in Create ML,
I encourage you to watch
this video from WWDC 2019.
Object detection can enable
some engaging app experiences.
You can build an app to help
people sort their trash.
Try virtual classes on their pet cat.
and even an app that can recommend
recipes based on detected ingredients.
Building a model for this app is
a great way to see Create ML and
its new features in action.
Significant improvements have
been made to object detection.
You can train accurate and smaller
models with less training data
and exposing more configuration
options to customize training.
So let's jump right in.
To get started,
I'll open the Create ML app
from Spotlight.
The first thing I see
is a template picker,
where I'll select Object Detection.
This opens a dialog box for entering
details about the Create ML project.
I’ll name this project "Find
My Recipe" and add a description
that it helps detect ingredients.
I can choose to change the project's
location before creating it.
Next, I land on the Settings tab.
Data and configuration options can
be tweaked here before training.
Before loading the data,
I’ll take you through how
this data is prepared.
Object detection data must
be stored in a folder,
which contains all training images
and the annotations.json file.
Contents of annotations.json
can be understood by taking
this image as an example,
which has two objects,
a slice of bread and a tomato.
Each object annotation consists
of the object's label and
its location in the image.
The location is based on the
top left corner of the image.
All objects in the images of the training
data can be annotated in this way.
All these annotations are added to
a single JSON file in this format.
I’ll use this information
to prepare my training data.
After the data is prepared,
I can load it in the Create ML app.
Clicking on the View button shows
the class distribution of my dataset.
As you can see, my classes are Tomato,
Cheese, Bread, and Basil.
Moving back to the Settings tab,
validation data can be provided
optionally to ensure that the
model performs well on unseen data.
Here, I set validation data to automatic,
letting Create ML use a
small portion of my dataset.
There are also new training
parameters that allow you to better
control training of your model.
They are: Algorithm, Iterations,
Batch Size, and Grid Size.
There's two algorithms for training.
First is the full network.
Let's look deeper into the
full network algorithm.
Full network was introduced in
Create ML in 2019 and has been the
default training algorithm since.
This algorithm is based on
the YOLOv2 architecture.
All parameters of this network
are trained using your data.
The resulting Core ML model
encodes all the learned parameters.
This Core ML model has been quantized
to store weights with 16-bit precision.
The resulting model size is
half of what we got earlier.
So a model that was previously
around 65 MB will now be 33 MB.
This algorithm is recommended when you
have large amounts of training data,
like over 200 bounding boxes per class.
The resulting model is
backwards compatible,
going all the way back to iOS 12.
We wanted to enable you to build highly
accurate models with less training data,
which is why we’re introducing
the Transfer Learning Algorithm
for Object Detection.
Transfer learning leverages
machine learning models already
in the operating system.
For example, Photo’s app includes models
that power search and memories.
One of the pre-trained backbones that
Photos uses is called Object Print.
This is trained on huge
amounts of diverse data.
With Transfer Learning,
you can take advantage of this
to reduce your data requirement.
Transfer Learning Algorithm
in Create ML uses object print
along with the head network.
Only the head network
is trained on your data,
reducing the number of parameters
that need to be learned.
As a result,
the Core ML model contains only
the head network parameters.
which makes your model five times
smaller than the full network.
The same model that was 65 megabytes
in 2019 and 33 megabytes after
quantization will be just 7 megabytes
using the transfer learning algorithm.
Transfer learning is a great
option when you have limited data
and want a lightweight model.
It does well with as few as 80
training examples per class.
The resulting model requires
iOS 14 to leverage the object
print shipped with the OS.
Algorithm is just one of
the new configurations.
Parameters like iterations and
batch size have also been added.
Iterations is the number of times
the model's parameters are updated.
A default value is picked
based on the dataset size.
For your particular use case,
you can increase iterations if
the model has not yet converged,
or reduce them if the
model is doing well early.
Batch size refers to the
number of training examples
utilized in one iteration.
A default value is chosen
based on hardware restrictions.
Although higher batch size is better,
you may want to use the default
value or reduce it based on
performance restrictions.
Finally, for the full network,
you can customize grid size.
Understanding grid size requires
knowledge of how predictions
work for the full network.
Let’s take a closer look.
Starting with this input image,
passing it to a trained full
network model results in a number of
predicted objects with bounding boxes.
To find the objects in the image,
the model leverages a grid
and a set of anchor boxes.
The specified grid defines the
aspect ratio of the input image,
as well as where the model
will look for detected objects.
For example,
let's see how the model will behave
with a grid dimension of 5 by 5.
The image will be
resized to fit the grid,
in this case to a square image,
and then broken up into the
defined number of cells.
The network then produces predictions,
one for each grid cell.
Each prediction contains
the following information:
whether a cell has an object in it,
the class of the object,
and its bounding box.
YOLO works fine for multiple
objects where each object is
associated with one grid cell.
As you can see in this image,
the centers of banana and
dog fall in the same cell.
Since each cell can
only predict one class,
it is forced to pick either
the banana or the dog.
In order to predict
both the banana and dog,
anchor boxes are defined.
Anchor boxes have a set aspect
ratio and detect multiple
objects within a grid cell.
Create ML uses a default
grid dimension of 13 by 13,
totaling 169 cells.
A fixed set of 15 anchor boxes of varying
aspect ratio are evaluated for each cell.
Therefore,
the default model is doing a total
of 2,535 predictions per image.
Consider this image of dice,
and how object detection would
work with a grid dimension of 3x3.
As multiple dyes of similar aspect
ratio are present in a single cell,
only one of them would be detected.
With a large grid size,
more dice are detected.
However, this will increase the number
of predictions per image.
It's important to consider
the computational cost when
altering the grid size.
For a non-square input image like
this one with dimensions 1500x800,
using an 8x8 grid on this image
results in loss of information and
distorts the natural shape of objects.
This prevents the model from
capturing more fine-grained
patterns while training,
as well as hinders its predictive power.
Choosing a grid size of 15 by 8
preserves the original aspect ratio
of the input image and results
in a model that has learned more
information and can give better results.
Getting back to training the model
for the Find My Recipe project,
I can pick transfer learning algorithm,
set 1000 iterations,
and auto for batch size.
On clicking the play button,
the model starts training.
The training tab shows that
the batch is being prepared.
This step performs a set of
standard image augmentations
to help with robustness and
generalizability to real-world data.
Soon, a graph appears plotting loss
values for each iteration.
As training proceeds,
the snapshot button can be clicked
to obtain a model at that time.
Snapshots are helpful in
checking on training progress.
I can use this model to preview
predictions on a few images.
For every image, model predictions are
shown in the preview tab.
I can click on these bounding
boxes to see confidence for
each class at the bottom.
A snapshot can also be used
to experiment within an app.
After training is complete,
evaluation metrics on training
and validation data can be
seen in the Evaluation tab.
What do these numbers mean?
Evaluation for object detection
models needs to be twofold.
Not only do we want correct labels,
but they must also be
at the right locations.
Getting the bounding boxes to exactly
match the annotated box is hard.
A number that captures how
close predicted boxes are to
annotated boxes becomes necessary.
This is measured by a score
called Intersection Over Union.
It is a value between 0% which is no
overlap to 100% which is perfect overlap.
For a prediction to
be considered correct,
it needs to have the correct class label
and an intersection over union score
greater than a predefined threshold.
If either the intersection over union
score is less than the threshold,
or the predicted class is incorrect,
the overall prediction is incorrect.
This information is used
to compute a metric called
Mean Average Precision or MAP.
I’ll go back to the Evaluations
tab to see these numbers.
These numbers represent
average precision per class,
calculated at two thresholds.
One is fixed at 50% and the other
varied at multiple thresholds.
The overall mean average
precision for our dataset can
be seen at the top right corner.
Higher MEP reflects more
correct predictions.
The MAPFR model looks good overall.
I’ll preview the model on a few
examples to make sure that the
model predictions look right.
Everything looks great.
I can now drop this model into our app.
With the additional
features that you just saw,
creating an object detection
model using Create ML is simple.
Create ML helps you customize models by
providing more control over training.
It helps you build accurate models
with less data and smaller output size.
We can't wait to see the wonderful
ideas that you bring to the table
using these brand new features.